## Richard Godfrey Rivers <small>(12‑24‑4)</small>

Rivers was born probably in 1859 at Plymouth, Devon, son of Richard Rivers, landed proprietor, and his wife Bertha, née Harris. He studied at the Slade School of Fine Art, University College, London (1877‑83) receiving the prize for landscape painting in 1883 and exhibiting at the Royal Academy of Arts in 1884. In 1889 he came to Australia. He taught at Katoomba College, NSW, and then was appointed second art master at Brisbane Technical College (1890‑1910, part‑time 1910‑15). He soon emerged as leader of Brisbane's artistic community and the first artist member of the Queensland Club in 1891.

Rivers also taught at his studio, at the Brisbane High School for Girls and at Brisbane Girls' Grammar School. Rivers was president of the Queensland Art Society in 1892‑1901 and 1904‑08. Largely through his efforts the Queensland National Art Gallery ultimately opened in 1895.

His course at the technical college embraced both art and craft. His extant work includes the decorative painting of angelic figures on the ceiling of the sanctuary in St Mary's Church, Kangaroo Point (1892), his design of the altar in the Blessed Sacrament Chapel, St John's Cathedral, Brisbane and other furniture in the cathedral. The Godfrey Rivers medal was established at the technical college in 1929 by his wife Selina Jane, née Bell, whom he had married in St John's Cathedral on 25 September 1901.

Rivers died on 4 February 1925 of typhoid fever while on a visit to England and his ashes were interred here. His wife and daughter survived him. The Godfrey Rivers Trust, founded by his wife for the Queensland Art Gallery, established the Godfrey Rivers prize (acquisitive) and purchased art works. His most popular work, 'Under the Jacaranda' (1903), hangs in the Queensland Art Gallery and features his wife.
